draft brainrender-blog (#123)
brainglobe/brainglobe.github.io: docs/source/blog/brainrender-megafix.md

location: Zurich, Switzerland
category: brainrender
language: English
---

# Now `brainrender` support has resumed, what are the plans for its future?

As some of you may have noticed, `brainrender` has undergone some much-needed and extensive maintenance work over the last few months. We are happy to report that, as a consequence, we have resumed supporting `brainrender` after a short hiatus. `brainrender` now works with [more recent versions of Python](../community/developers/conventions.md#dependency-support) and more recent versions of key dependencies (such as [vedo](https://vedo.embl.es/)). It should also be straightforward to [install on all operating systems](../documentation/brainrender/installation.md). We take this opportunity to set out the next steps for this tool.

In line [with our roadmap](../community/roadmaps/november-2023.md#v2-q2-2024), we plan to deprecate brainrender's graphical user interface (GUI) in the next few months, in favour of [`brainrender-napari`](../tutorials/visualise-atlas-napari.md). This will mean that users can use `brainrender` through the same GUI framework - [`napari`](https://napari.org/stable/) - as other BrainGlobe tools.

> 

Reviewer: Considering `brainrender` and `brainrender-napari` are (currently) completely different, would it be worth making it clear that one isn't the GUI for the other, and maybe making clearer what the difference is (especially what brainrender-napari will eventually enable)?

> We also plan to continue to support using `brainrender` through a command line interface (CLI). Note that `brainrender` CLI and `brainrender-napari` will be two equivalent, but independent ways to visualise neuroanatomical data in a common coordinate space (the former through `vedo`, the latter through the `napari` canvas) rather than co-existing in a frontend-backend relationship like other brainglobe tools (e.g. `cellfinder.napari` and `cellfinder.core`). Under the hood, we might move some functionality around so that it can be used both from `brainrender` and `brainrender-napari`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also plan to continue to support the `brainrender` Python interface. Note that `brainrender` and `brainrender-napari` will be two equivalent, but independent ways to visualise neuroanatomical data in a common coordinate space (the former through `vedo`, the latter through the `napari` canvas) rather than co-existing in a frontend-backend relationship like other brainglobe tools (e.g. `cellfinder.napari` and `cellfinder.core`). Under the hood, we might move some functionality around so that it can be used both from `brainrender` and `brainrender-napari`.
```
